Guide for wallet account (#1156)
starknet-io/starknet.js: www/docs/guides/walletAccount.md

---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# WalletAccount

**Use wallets (like Braavos & ArgentX) to sign your transactions in your DAPP.**

> The `WalletAccount` class is similar to the regular `Account` class, but is also able to ask to a browser wallet to sign and send a transaction. Some other cool functionalities will be detailed hereunder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `WalletAccount` class is similar to the regular `Account` class, but is also able to ask a browser wallet to sign and send a transaction. Some other cool functionalities will be detailed hereunder.
```

Author: Ok.

The private key of a WalletAccount is held in a browser wallet (as ArgentX or Braavos), and any signature is managed by the wallet. You don't have to manage in your DAPP the security of any private key.

:::caution

> This class is working only in the scope of a DAPP. You can't use it in a node.js script.

Reviewer 2: The intention is to be used in the browser environment, but technically you could build a node wallet service using SWO *wallet-api <-> some-service (whatever app) that could act as a bridge to a mobile wallet or some signing service and connect the node app to it.

:::

## Architecture

![](./pictures/WalletAccountArchitecture.png)

> If you want to read Starknet, the WalletAccount will read directly the blockchain. That's why at the initialization of a WalletAccount, you need to put in the parameters a Provider instance. It will be used for all reading activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to read from Starknet, the WalletAccount should be used directly to access the blockchain. Hence, during the initialization of a WalletAccount, you need to include a Provider instance as a parameter. This will be used for all reading activities.
```

Author: The meaning is changed, in a wrong way. I want to say that in case of Starknet reading , WalletAccount will internally read  Starknet without any SWO use, using the RPC Provider defined at instantiation.

> If you want to write to Starknet, the WalletAccount will ask to a browser Wallet to sign and send the transaction, using the Starknet Wallet API to communicate.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to write to Starknet, the WalletAccount will ask the browser Wallet to sign and send the transaction, using the Starknet Wallet API to communicate.  
```

Author: Ok.

> As several Wallets can be installed in your browser, the WalletAccount needs the ID of one of the available wallets. You can ask to get-starknet to display a list of available wallets and to provide as a response the identifier of the selected wallet, called a Starknet Windows Object (named SWO from now).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As several Wallets can be installed in your browser, the WalletAccount needs the ID of one of the available wallets. You can ask `get-starknet` to display a list of available wallets and to provide as a response the identifier of the selected wallet, called a `Starknet Windows Object` (named SWO from now).
```

Author: Ok.

## Select a Wallet

> You can ask to the `get-starknet` v4 library to display a list of wallets, then it will ask you to make a choice. It will return the SWO of the wallet the user selected.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can ask the `get-starknet` v4 library to display a list of wallets, then it will ask you to make a choice. It will return the SWO of the wallet the user selected.  
```

Author: Ok.

> Using the `get-starknet-core` v4 library, you can create your own UI and logical to select the wallet. An example of DAPP using a custom UI : [**here**](https://github.com/PhilippeR26/Starknet-WalletAccount/blob/main/src/app/components/client/WalletHandle/SelectWallet.tsx), where you can select only the wallets compatible with the Starknet wallet API.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `get-starknet-core` v4 library, you can create your own UI and logic to select the wallet. An example of DAPP using a custom UI : [**here**](https://github.com/PhilippeR26/Starknet-WalletAccount/blob/main/src/app/components/client/WalletHandle/SelectWallet.tsx), where you can select only the wallets compatible with the Starknet wallet API.  
```

Author: Ok.

![](./pictures/SelectWallet.png)

So, you instantiate a new WalletAccount with :

```typescript
import { connect } from 'get-starknet'; // v4.0.0 min
import { WalletAccount } from 'starknet'; // v6.10.0 min
const myFrontendProviderUrl = 'https://free-rpc.nethermind.io/sepolia-juno/v0_7';
// standard UI to select a wallet :
const selectedWalletSWO = await connect({ modalMode: 'alwaysAsk', modalTheme: 'light' });
const myWalletAccount = new WalletAccount({ nodeUrl: myFrontendProviderUrl }, selectedWalletSWO);
```

## Use as an account

> Once the new WalletAccount created, you can use all the power of Starknet.js, exactly as a with a normal Account instance.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the new WalletAccount is created, you can use all the power of Starknet.js, exactly as a with a normal Account instance.  
```

Author: Ok.

  proof: proof,
});
const resp = await myWalletAccount.execute(claimCall);
```

![](./pictures/executeTx.png)

## Use in a Contract instance

You can connect a WalletAccount with a Contract instance. All reading actions are performed by the provider of the WalletAccount, and all writing actions (that needs a signature) are performed by the browser wallet.

```typescript
const lendContract = new Contract(contract.abi, contractAddress, myWalletAccount);
const qty = await lendContract.get_available_asset(addr); // use of the WalletAccount provider.
const resp = await lendContract.process_lend_asset(addr); // use of the browser wallet
```

## Use as a provider

Your WalletAccount instance can be used as a provider :

```typescript
const bl = await myWalletAccount.getBlockNumber();
// bl = 2374543
```

You can use all the methods of the RpcProvider class. Under the hood, the WalletAccount will use the rpc node that you indicated at its instantiation.

## Subscription to events

You can subscribe to 2 events :

- `accountsChanged` : Triggered each time you change the current account in the wallet.
- `networkChanged` : Triggered each time you change the current network in the wallet.

> At each change of network, both account and network events are occurring.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At each change of the network, both account and network events are occurring.  
```

Author: Ok.

> At each change of account, only the account event is occurring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At each change of the account, only the account event is occurring.
```

Author: Ok.

    setChangedAccount(textAddr); // from a React useState
  }
};
selectedWalletSWO.on('accountsChanged', handleAccount);
```

#### networkChanged

```typescript
const handleNetwork: NetworkChangeEventHandler = (chainId?: string, accounts?: string[]) => {
  if (!!chainId) {
    setChangedNetwork(chainId);
  } // from a React useState
};
selectedWalletSWO.on('networkChanged', handleNetwork);
```

### Un-subscribe :

Similar to subscription, using `.off` method.

```typescript
selectedWalletSWO.off('accountsChanged', handleAccount);
selectedWalletSWO.off('networkChanged', handleNetwork);
```

:::info
You can subscribe both with the SWO or with a WalletAccount instance.  
The above examples are using the SWO, because it's the simpler way to process.
:::

## Direct access to the wallet API entry points

The WalletAccount class is able to interact with all the entrypoints of the Starknet wallet API, including some functionalities that do not exists in an Account class.
You have a full description of this API [**here**](https://github.com/PhilippeR26/Starknet-WalletAccount/blob/main/doc/walletAPIspec.md).

Some examples:

### Request a change of wallet network

> Using your WalletAccount, you can ask to the wallet to change its current network:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using your WalletAccount, you can ask the wallet to change its current network:
```

Author: Ok.

```typescript
useEffect(
  () => {
    if (!isValidNetwork()) {
      const tryChangeNetwork = async () => {
        await myWalletAccount.switchStarknetChain(constants.StarknetChainId.SN_SEPOLIA);
      };
      tryChangeNetwork().catch(console.error);
    }
  },
  [chainId] // from a networkChanged event
);
```

![](./pictures/switchNetwork.png)

### Request to display a token in the wallet

> Using your WalletAccount, you can ask to the wallet to display a new token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using your WalletAccount, you can ask the wallet to display a new token:
```

Author: Ok.

```typescript
useEffect(
  () => {
    const fetchAddToken = async () => {
      const resp = await myWalletAccount.watchAsset({
        type: 'ERC20',
        options: {
          address: erc20Address,
        },
      });
    };
    if (isAirdropSuccess) {
      fetchAddToken().catch(console.error);
    }
  },
  [isAirdropSuccess] // from a React useState
);
```

![](./pictures/addToken.png)

## Change of network or account

> When you change the network or the account address, the WalletAccount is automatically updated, but it can lead to a tricky behavior (read and write in different networks, problems of Cairo versions of the accounts, ....).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you change the network or the account address, the WalletAccount is automatically updated, but it can lead to tricky behavior (read and write in different networks, problems of Cairo versions of the accounts, ....).  
```

Author: Ok.
